
Navigation : [Previous](00-Foreword "page précédente\(Foreword\)")
| [Next](02-Libraries_and_mains_default_values "page
suivante\(Libraries and main default values\)")
toolkit of over 500 signal processing modules. It provides facilities for
composition and performance over a wide range of platforms. Before starting
with OMChroma you'll need to understand the structure and syntax of the
Csound's language.

Cound is a sound renderer, which works with two interdependent and
complementary text-based files, the orchestra file (extension -.orc) and the
score file (extension -.sco). These files constitute the Csound Orchestra and
Score.

The Csound orchestra file consists of two parts : the header section and the
instrument section. The header section contains the audio rate, the control
rate and the number of output channels. The instrument section contains the
instruments, which are designed by interconnecting opcodes that either
generate or modify signals. It is in an instrument that a Digital Signal
Processing algorithm is implemented.

The Csound score consists of three parts : tables, notes ad other information.

The tables are generated by mathematical function-drawing subroutines (GEN
routines or f-statements). They are not requested by all of the orchestra's
opcodes (modules), and are therefore not always necessary.

The notes or i-statements pass the performance parameters (P-fields) to the
instrument of the orchestra following their action-time.

Other information contains, for instance, the tempo statement (or
t-statement), which allows the specification of a tempo map. By default, all
the temporal data are expressed in beats with a metronome of 60 to the
crotchet (hence pulse = absolute time).

For more information about Csound see the Links section.

References :

Plan :

  * [OMChroma User Manual](OMChroma)
  * [System Configuration and Installation](Installation)
    * [Foreword](00-Foreword)
    * Csound
    * [Libraries and main default values](02-Libraries_and_mains_default_values)
    * [Importing tutorials](03-_Importing_tutorials)
    * [Extended preferences](04-Extended_preferences)
    * [Links](05-Links)
  * [Getting started](Getting_Started)
  * [Managing GEN function and sound files](Managing_GEN_function_and_sound_files)
  * [Predefined Classes](Predefined_classes)
  * [User-fun](User-fun)
  * [Creating a new Class](Creating_a_new_Class)
  * [Multichannel processing](06-Multichannel_processing)
  * [Appendix A - Common Red Patches](A-Appendix-A_Common_red_patches)

Navigation : [Previous](00-Foreword "page précédente\(Foreword\)")
| [Next](02-Libraries_and_mains_default_values "page
suivante\(Libraries and main default values\)")
